docs/index.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "poweradmin Provider"
description: |-
  Provider for managing Poweradmin DNS zones and records. Compatible with both Terraform and OpenTofu.
---

# poweradmin Provider

Provider for managing Poweradmin DNS zones and records. Compatible with both Terraform and OpenTofu.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Example using API Key authentication (recommended)
provider "poweradmin" {
  api_url = "https://dns.example.com"
  api_key = var.poweradmin_api_key
}

# Example using Basic Authentication
# provider "poweradmin" {
#   api_url  = "https://dns.example.com"
#   username = var.poweradmin_username
#   password = var.poweradmin_password
# }

# Example using development version (master branch)
# provider "poweradmin" {
#   api_url     = "https://dns.example.com"
#   api_key     = var.poweradmin_api_key
#   api_version = "dev"
# }

# Example for development with insecure TLS (not recommended for production)
# provider "poweradmin" {
#   api_url  = "http://localhost:8080"
#   api_key  = "test-key"
#   insecure = true
# }
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `api_url` (String) Poweradmin API base URL (e.g., https://dns.example.com)

### Optional

- `api_key` (String, Sensitive) API key for authentication (X-API-Key header)
- `api_version` (String) Poweradmin API version to use: 'v2' for stable (4.1.0+), 'dev' for development (master). Defaults to 'v2'
- `insecure` (Boolean) Skip TLS certificate verification (not recommended for production)
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password for HTTP basic authentication
- `username` (String) Username for HTTP basic authentication (alternative to api_key)

Commit message:

docs: remove unsupported 'dev' API version, clarify only v2 is supported
- Remove 'dev' API version from validation (not a real API endpoint)
- Update all documentation to reflect only v2 API is supported
- Clarify that v2 is for Poweradmin 4.1.0+
- Update provider schema, client comments, README, DEVELOPMENT.md, and docs/index.md

docs/index.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "poweradmin Provider"
description: |-
  Provider for managing Poweradmin DNS zones and records. Compatible with both Terraform and OpenTofu.
---

# poweradmin Provider

Provider for managing Poweradmin DNS zones and records. Compatible with both Terraform and OpenTofu.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Example using API Key authentication (recommended)
provider "poweradmin" {
  api_url = "https://dns.example.com"
  api_key = var.poweradmin_api_key
}

# Example using Basic Authentication
# provider "poweradmin" {
#   api_url  = "https://dns.example.com"
#   username = var.poweradmin_username
#   password = var.poweradmin_password
# }

# Example specifying API version (optional - defaults to v2)
# provider "poweradmin" {
#   api_url     = "https://dns.example.com"
#   api_key     = var.poweradmin_api_key
#   api_version = "v2"  # Only v2 is supported (Poweradmin 4.1.0+)
# }

# Example for development with insecure TLS (not recommended for production)
# provider "poweradmin" {
#   api_url  = "http://localhost:8080"
#   api_key  = "test-key"
#   insecure = true
# }
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `api_url` (String) Poweradmin API base URL (e.g., https://dns.example.com)

### Optional

- `api_key` (String, Sensitive) API key for authentication (X-API-Key header)
- `api_version` (String) Poweradmin API version to use. Only 'v2' is supported (Poweradmin 4.1.0+). Defaults to 'v2'
- `insecure` (Boolean) Skip TLS certificate verification (not recommended for production)
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password for HTTP basic authentication
- `username` (String) Username for HTTP basic authentication (alternative to api_key)
